We know that there's four pillars of Opie.
And we learned about encapsulation.
What's the second one.
Well it's called abstraction and abstraction means hiding of information or abstracting away information
and giving access to only what's necessary.
So whatever the user or the programmer or the machine is interested in that's the only thing we give
access to everything else.
We kind of hide it in a blanket underneath the hood because our users don't have to worry about it.
Let me show you what I mean.
If I go back to our old example here if so instead of having a dictionary we actually have a player
character with a bunch of methods.
Now abstraction can actually be seen here right.
When I do player one dot speak you're seeing abstraction in action because when I click Run I get this
string but when I call speak I don't really care how Speek is implemented.
All I know is that player 1 has access to the speak method and I can use it.
Same with when I'm using something like a couple.
Right.
If I have one two three and I do dot here I can do count to count how many items are in the couple.
So if I do print and click Run well I have to give it a thing that we're looking for in our case let's
look at one and let's add another one in here.
If I click Run I get two.
Now do I need to know how the count method was implemented.
No I mean I can go look into it.
I can look at the python documentation maybe the python code and understand how it's actually counting
this but I don't really need to write.
If we try to understand every single little piece our heads gonna explode sometimes all we need is a
method or an attribute and just get access to it without having to worry about how it's being implemented
which is really really nice.
The same goes with built in functions right.
If I do a length here and I click Run I get a length of 4 but I don't really need to know how length
was implemented in Python.
It's abstracted away from us and this is the power of O P it abstracts away things that we don't need
to care about or at least it makes us more efficient so that we know that a works a certain way and
we're not wasting our time learning or coding from scratch.
If we had our iPhone for example well the camera feature on an iPhone it'll be nice for an app that
we built to use it but we don't need to actually know exactly how the iPhone camera is coded on an iPhone.
No.
Instead the iPhone usually gives us a way to say camera dot take
to actually allow us to take a picture without knowing how the Apple engineers actually coded the camera.
So it's a very powerful concept.
OK.
So you're thinking I think I get a distraction but let me ask you this.
Could I just do player one dot.
Name equals two let's say exclamation marks and then player dot run or you know what.
Let's two speak equals two to make sure it's player 1 Well if I now print and do Player 1 dot speak
and I try to run this function let's see I get String object is not callable because speak has been
modified speak has been modified to a string value instead of this actual function that we would have
needed so that if I run just checking the speak attribute I get bu Mm hmm I mean abstraction is good
but hold on a second here this is bad if I have a class that I've abstracted away but anybody can come
along.
Any programmer can come along and just remove all my hard work and overwrite it like that.
Isn't that bad.
Let's take a break and explore this topic a little bit more in the next video.